dev_plan.md, before:

# Development Plan

This is the overall plan for how to proceed with this project.

## Approach

Overall architecture and design.

### Fundamentals

Task items will be objects of the TaskItem class

TaskItem Objects will have the following state variable, which will have one of the following states at any given time:
- Ready: reset from the previous period and ready to start
- Active: the task item that is currently being done
- Paused: a task item that has been started during this period, is not currently active, and can be resumed
- Finished: a sufficient amount of work has been completed during the current period for the task item to be considered done for the current period

### Requirements and Definitions

The initial, informal requirements list (in the form of "I can..." statements), as well as nomenclature and definitions for this project, can be found in the [requirements.md](requirements.md) file.

### Minimum Viable Product (MVP)

The initial, or startup, Minimum Viable Product (MVP) will be:
1. Developed in Python 3.1x using FreeSimpleGUI in a virtual environment.
2. Run on Windows 11
3. Address the following requirements:
    - I can ADD a Task Item
    - I can EDIT a Task Item
    - I can SORT Task Items
    - I can ARCHIVE a Task Item
    - I can DELETE a Task Item
    - I can Start a Task
    - I can Pause a Task
    - I can Resums a Task
    - I can Check Off (finish for the current period) a Task
    - Task Items reset their "Checked Off" state at the appropriate interval
    - I can toggle between available task items
        - Toggling any Task Item to "on" or "currently working" or whatever pauses any other "active" task item
        - "Checking off" or "finishing" a task item for the day does not automatically resume any other task item   



## Frameworks, Tools, and Libraries

### Python

Initial development will be in Python 3.xx, using FreeSimpleGUI, in a virtual environment.

#### Port to C/C++

Once I have a solid minimum viable product (MVP), I will probably attempt a port to C/C++. This will be both an exercise to rebuild my C language skills and a comparison of the different development approaches.

One decision that will need to be made at that time (if not before) is which C/C++/C# toolchain to use.
- MSYS2
- MSVC

### SQLite (Database)

This will be the starting database at least, and my serve for future versions as well.

### Graphical User Interface

I'll use a free, (most likely) open-source GUI toolkit. Theoretically, one that supports multiple languages and is available on both Windows and Linux would be preferable. Finding one that meets that criteria and works with VSCode might be a challenge.

#### FreeSimpleGUI

On option for the user interface is [FreeSimpleGUI](https://github.com/spyoungtech/FreeSimpleGui), which is a continuation of the now defunct PySimpleGUI libaray. Downside is that it only supports Python (I think). 

[Documentation](https://freesimplegui.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for FreeSimpleGUI.

##### PyGObject and PyCairo
If you are going to use PyGObject and Pycairo, you also need to use the gvsbuild generated wheels with your [Python virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) in order to work around this [PyGObject bug](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/pygobject/-/issues/545):
```
pip install --force-reinstall (Resolve-Path C:\gtk\wheels\PyGObject*.whl)
pip install --force-reinstall (Resolve-Path C:\gtk\wheels\pycairo*.whl)
```

### PyInstaller (for Windows (initially))

A cursory review of the available tools to bundle a Python project into an "executable" indicates that [PyInstaller](https://pyinstaller.org/en/stable/) will likely be the way to go.

## Design/Architecture Considerations

Task details will be contained in an object. 

The code to handle database queries will be encapsulated to make changing database engines possible, if not "easy."

## Application Layout
Based on this post from [RealPython.com](https://realpython.com/python-application-layouts/), I will be using the layout for the "Application with Internal Packages" structure. This is likely a bit of overkill, but it will be good practice.

## GUI Design (Main)

## Database Design and Connection

## GUI Design (Anciallary: 'New Task Form', 'Export/Import Form', 'Database Backup', etc.)

## Timekeeping (time spent on each task, moving completed tasks to bottom of list, etc.)

Commit message:

New document 'dev_report.md' and some questions to ponder.

dev_plan.md, after:

# Development Plan

This is the overall plan for how to proceed with this project. As ususal, plans seem great until the actual project starts, at which time issues present themselves. With that in mind, I have today (Thursday, September 4, 2025) created a separate file named ['dev_report.md'](dev_report.md) which will chronicle (well, more like summarize) what actually happened, rather than what I originally envisioned.

## Approach

Overall architecture and design.

### Fundamentals

Task items will be objects of the TaskItem class

TaskItem Objects will have the following state variable, which will have one of the following states at any given time:
- Ready: reset from the previous period and ready to start
- Active: the task item that is currently being done
- Paused: a task item that has been started during this period, is not currently active, and can be resumed
- Finished: a sufficient amount of work has been completed during the current period for the task item to be considered done for the current period

### Requirements and Definitions

The initial, informal requirements list (in the form of "I can..." statements), as well as nomenclature and definitions for this project, can be found in the [requirements.md](requirements.md) file.

### Minimum Viable Product (MVP)

The initial, or startup, Minimum Viable Product (MVP) will be:
1. Developed in Python 3.1x using FreeSimpleGUI in a virtual environment.
2. Run on Windows 11
3. Address the following requirements:
    - I can ADD a Task Item
    - I can EDIT a Task Item
    - I can SORT Task Items
    - I can ARCHIVE a Task Item
    - I can DELETE a Task Item
    - I can Start a Task
    - I can Pause a Task
    - I can Resums a Task
    - I can Check Off (finish for the current period) a Task
    - Task Items reset their "Checked Off" state at the appropriate interval
    - I can toggle between available task items
        - Toggling any Task Item to "on" or "currently working" or whatever pauses any other "active" task item
        - "Checking off" or "finishing" a task item for the day does not automatically resume any other task item   



## Frameworks, Tools, and Libraries

### Python

Initial development will be in Python 3.xx, using FreeSimpleGUI, in a virtual environment.

#### Port to C/C++

Once I have a solid minimum viable product (MVP), I will probably attempt a port to C/C++. This will be both an exercise to rebuild my C language skills and a comparison of the different development approaches.

One decision that will need to be made at that time (if not before) is which C/C++/C# toolchain to use.
- MSYS2
- MSVC

### SQLite (Database)

This will be the starting database at least, and my serve for future versions as well.

### Graphical User Interface

I'll use a free, (most likely) open-source GUI toolkit. Theoretically, one that supports multiple languages and is available on both Windows and Linux would be preferable. Finding one that meets that criteria and works with VSCode might be a challenge.

#### FreeSimpleGUI

On option for the user interface is [FreeSimpleGUI](https://github.com/spyoungtech/FreeSimpleGui), which is a continuation of the now defunct PySimpleGUI libaray. Downside is that it only supports Python (I think). 

[Documentation](https://freesimplegui.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for FreeSimpleGUI.

##### PyGObject and PyCairo
If you are going to use PyGObject and Pycairo, you also need to use the gvsbuild generated wheels with your [Python virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) in order to work around this [PyGObject bug](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/pygobject/-/issues/545):
```
pip install --force-reinstall (Resolve-Path C:\gtk\wheels\PyGObject*.whl)
pip install --force-reinstall (Resolve-Path C:\gtk\wheels\pycairo*.whl)
```

### PyInstaller (for Windows (initially))

A cursory review of the available tools to bundle a Python project into an "executable" indicates that [PyInstaller](https://pyinstaller.org/en/stable/) will likely be the way to go.

## Design/Architecture Considerations

Task details will be contained in an object. 

The code to handle database queries will be encapsulated to make changing database engines possible, if not "easy."

## Application Layout
Based on this post from [RealPython.com](https://realpython.com/python-application-layouts/), I will be using the layout for the "Application with Internal Packages" structure. This is likely a bit of overkill, but it will be good practice.

## GUI Design (Main)

## Database Design and Connection

## GUI Design (Anciallary: 'New Task Form', 'Export/Import Form', 'Database Backup', etc.)

## Timekeeping (time spent on each task, moving completed tasks to bottom of list, etc.)
